Querying-best-practices edits (#782)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/querying/querying-best-practices.mdx

title: Querying Best Practices
---

> The Graph provides a decentralized way to query data from blockchains via GraphQL API, making it easier to query data with the GraphQL language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Graph provides a decentralized way to query data from blockchains via GraphQL APIs, making it easier to query data with the GraphQL language.
```
Also, I find it interesting that we don't mention the word "subgraph" here... those GraphQL APIs are subgraphs :P

Author: Not sure if this was intentional (and if it was, don't know for what reason)

> Learn the essential GraphQL language rules and GraphQL queries best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn the essential GraphQL language rules and best practices around querying with GraphQL.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Learn the essential GraphQL language rules and GraphQL querying best practices.
```

})
```

> Note: The opposite directive is `@skip(if: ...)`.

### Ask for what you want

GraphQL became famous for its "Ask for what you want" tagline.

For this reason, there is no way, in GraphQL, to get all available fields without having to list them individually.

- When querying GraphQL APIs, always think of querying only the fields that will be actually used.

> - A common cause of over-fetching is collections of entities. By default, queries will fetch 100 entities in a collection, which is usually much more than what will actually be used, e.g., for display to the user.
> - Queries should always be set first explicitly.
>   - Make sure queries only fetch as many entities as they actually need. This applies not just to top-level collections in a query, but even more so to nested collections of entities.

Reviewer: A bit repetitive. I propose:

```suggestion
- Make sure queries only fetch as many entities as you actually need. By default, queries will fetch 100 entities in a collection, which is usually much more than what will actually be used, e.g., for display to the user. This applies not just to top-level collections in a query, but even more so to nested collections of entities.
```

Such repeated fields (`id`, `active`, `status`) bring many issues:

> - Harder to read for more extensive queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- More extensive queries become harder to read.
```

It is not possible to spread a fragment of type `Vote` here.

#### Define Fragment as an atomic business unit of data

> GraphQL Fragment must be defined based on their usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL `Fragment`s must be defined based on their usage.
```

For most use-case, defining one fragment per type (in the case of repeated fields usage or type generation) is sufficient.

> Here is a rule of thumb for using Fragment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a rule of thumb for using fragments:
```

> - When fields of the same type are repeated in a query, group them in a Fragment
> - When similar but not the same fields are repeated, create multiple fragments, ex:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When fields of the same type are repeated in a query, group them in a `Fragment`.
- When similar but different fields are repeated, create multiple fragments, for instance:
```
